Date: 2025-07-24
Tags: [[regulations]] 
---

## 1. Regulatory Compliance Considerations 
### PCI DSS :
The Payment card industry data security standard regulation aims to secure the processing of credit card payments and other types of digital payments. [PCI DSS](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org) 

In order to protect cardholders against misuse of their personal information and to minimize payment card channel losses, the major payment card brands (Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express) formed the payment card industry security standards council and developed the payment card industry data security standard. 

Here are several common terms that are used in this module and are defined by PCI SSC at [pdf]([_https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/PCI_DSS_Glossary_v3-2.pdf_](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/PCI_DSS_Glossary_v3-2.pdf)) 

1. **Acquirer :** or "acquiring back" or an "acquiring financial institution" an entity that initiates and maintains relationships with merchants for the acceptance of payment cards. ^a98557
2. **ASV(approved scanning vendor) :**  An organization approved by the PCI SSC to conduct external vulnerability scanning services  ^4e7589
3. **Merchant :** an entity that accepts payment cards bearing the logos of any of the members of PCI SSC(American Express, Discover, MasterCard, or Visa) as payment for goods/services. 
4. **PAN(primary account number) :** A payment card number that is up to 19 digits long.
5. **Payment Brand :** Brands such as Visa, MasterCard, Amex, or Discover.
6. **PCI Forensic Investigator (PFI) :** A person trained and certified to investigate and contain information about cybersecurity incidents and breaches involving cardholder data.
7. **Qualified Security assessor (QSA) :** An individual trained and certified to carry out PCI DSS compliance assessments. 
8. **Service Provider :** A business entity that is not a payment brand and that is directly involved in the processing, storage, or transmission of cardholder data. This includes companies that provide services that control and could impact the security of cardholder data, such as managed service providers that provide managed firewalls, intrusion detection and other services, and hosting providers and other entities. Entities such as telecommunications companies that only provide communication links without access to the application layer of the communication link are excluded.

| Cardholder data              | Sensitive Authentication Data                          |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Primary account number (PAN) | Full magnetic stripe data or equivalent data on a chip |
| Cardholder name              | CAV2/CVC2/CVV2/CID                                     |
| Expiration date              | PINs/PIB blocks                                        |
| Service code                 |                                                        |
The PAN is the defining factor in the applicability of PCI DSS requirements. PCI DSS requirements apply if the PAN is stored, processed, or transmitted. if the PAN is not stored, processed, or transmitted, PCI DSS requirements no not apply. If cardholder name, service code, and/or expiration date are stored, processed, or transmitted with the PAN or are otherwise present in the cardholder data environment, they too must be protected. Per the standards, the PAN must be stored in an unreadable(encrypted) format. Sensitive authentication data may never be stored post-authorization, even if encrypted. 

The Luhn algorithm, or Luhn formula, is an industry algorithm used to validate different identification numbers, including credit card numbers, International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers, national provider identifier numbers in the United States, Canadian Social Insurance Numbers, and more. The Luhn algorithm, created by Hans Peter Luhn in 1954, is now in the public domain.

Most credit cards and many government organizations use the Luhn algorithm to validate numbers. The Luhn algorithm is based on the principle of modulo arithmetic and digital roots. It uses modulo-10 mathematics.

The following are the typical elements on the front of a credit card:

- Embedded microchip
- PAN
- Expiration date
- Cardholder name

The microchip contains the same information as the magnetic stripe. Most non-U.S. cards have a microchip instead of a magnetic stripe. Some U.S. cards have both for international acceptance.

The following are the typical elements on the back of a credit card:

- **Magnetic stripe (mag stripe):** The magnetic stripe contains encoded data required to authenticate, authorize, and process transactions.
- **CAV2/CID/CVC2/CVV2:** All these abbreviations are names for card security codes for the different payment brands.

The PCI SSC website provides great guidance on the requirements for penetration testing. See [_https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org_](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).


### HIPAA : 
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 regulation was to simplify and standardize healthcare administrative processes. Administrative simplification called for the transition from paper records and transactions to electronic records and transactions. [HIPPA](https://www.cdc.gov/phlp/publications/topic/hippa.html)

### FedRAMP:
The U.S. federal government uses the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program standard to authorize the use of cloud service offerings. [fedramp](https://www.fedramp.gov)

### GDPR : 
General Data Protection Regulation includes strict rules around the processing of data and privacy.  One of it's main goals is to strengthen and unify data protection for individuals within the European Union (EU), while addressing the export of personal data outside the EU. [GDPR](https://gdpr-info.eu)

## 2. Legal Concepts

### Service level agreement (SLA) : 
An SLA is a well-documented expectation or constraint related to one or more of the minimum and/or maximum performance measures (such as quality, timeline/timeframe, and cost) of the penetration testing service. You should become familiar with any SLAs that the organization that hired you has provided to its customers. 

### Confidentiality : 
You must discuss and agree on the handling of confidential data. For example, if you are able to find passwords or other sensitive data, do you need to disclose all those passwords or all that sensitive data? who will have access to sensitive data? what will be the proper way to communicate and handle such data? Similarly, you must protect sensitive data and delete all records, per you agreement with your client. Your customer could have specific data retention policies that you might also have to be aware of. Every time you finish a penetration testing engagement, you should delete any records from your systems. You do not want your next customer to find sensitive information from another client in any system or communication. 

### Statement of work (SOW) :
An SOW is a document that specifies the activities to be performed during a penetration testing engagement. It can be used to define some of the following elements: 
- Project (penetration testing) timelines, including the report delivery schedule 
- The scope of the work to be performed 
- The location of the work (geographic location or network location)
- Special technical and nontechnical requirements
- Payment schedule
- Miscellaneous items that may not be part of the main negotiation but that need to be listed and tracked because they could pose problems during the overall engagement.

The SOW can be standalone document or can be part of a ***master service agreement (MSA)*** 

### Master service agreement (MSA) : 
MSAs, which are very popular today, are contracts that can be used to quickly negotiate the work to be performed. When a master agreement is in place, the same terms do not have to be renegotiated every time you perform work for a customer. MSAs are especially  beneficial when you perform a penetration test, and you know that you will be rehired on a recurring basis to perform additional tests in other areas of the company or to verify that the security posture of the organization has been improved as a result prior testing and remediation. 

### Non-disclosure agreement (NDA) : 
An NDA is a legal document and contract between you and an organization that has hired you as penetration tester. An NDA specifies and defines confidential material, knowledge, and information that should not be disclosed and that should be kept confidential by both parties, NDAs can be classified as any of the following: 

- **Unilateral :** Only one party discloses certain information to the other party. and the information must be kept protected and not disclosed. 
- **Bilateral :** or mutual, or two-way, NDA both parties share sensitive information with each with each other, and this information should not be disclosed to any other entity. 
- **Multilateral :** This type of NDA involves three or more parties, with at least one of the parties disclosing sensitive information that should not be disclosed to any entity outside the agreement. Multilateral NDAs are used in the event that an organization external to your customer (business partner, service provider, and so on) should also be engaged in the penetration testing engagement. 

## 3. Disclaimer :
statements such as "the penetration test report cannot and does not protect against personal or business loss resulting from the test agreement" 

## 4. Confidentiality : 
agreement regarding how to communicate and handle sensitive data, such as account credentials that were uncovered by the testing